 "Many people think that the best way to escape war is to dwell upon its horrors and to imprint
 them vividly upon the minds of the younger generation. They flaunt the grisly photographs
 before their eyes. They fill their ears with tales of carnage. They dilate upon the ineptitude
 of generals and admirals. They denounce the crime and insensate folly of human strife.
 Now all this teaching ought to be very useful in preventing us from attacking or invading
 any other country, if anyone outside a madhouse wished to do so. But how would it help us if
 we were attacked or invaded ourselves? That is the question we have to ask. Would the
 invaders consent to visit Lord Beaverbrook's exhibition or listen to the impassioned appeals
 of Mr Lloyd George? Would they agree to meet that famous South African, General Smuts,
 and have their inferiority complex removed in friendly, reasonable debate? I doubt it.
 I have borne responsibility for the safety of this country in grievous times. I gravely
 doubt it. But even if they did, I am not so sure we should convince them and persuade
 them to go back quietly home. They might say, it seems to me, 'You are rich. We are poor.
 You seem well-fed. We are hungry. You have been victorious. We have been defeated. You
 have valuable colonies. We have none. You have your navy. Where is ours? You have had
 the past. Let us have the future.' Above all, I fear, they would say, 'You are weak, and
 we are strong.' After all, my friends, only a few hours away by air, there dwells a nation
 of nearly 70 millions of the most educated, industrious, scientific, disciplined people
 in the world, who are being taught from childhood to think of war as a glorious exercise and
 death in battle as the noblest fate for man. There is a nation which has abandoned all
 its liberties in order to augment its collective strength. There is a nation which, with all
 its strength and virtue, is in the grip of a group of ruthless men, preaching a gospel
 of intolerance and racial pride, unrestrained by law, by parliament, or by public opinion.
 In that country all pacifist speeches, all morbid war books, are forbidden or suppressed,
 and their authors rigorously imprisoned. From their new table of commandment, they have
 omitted, 'Thou shalt not kill.' It is but 20 years since these neighbors of ours fought
 almost the whole world and almost defeated them. Now they are rearming with the utmost
 speed. And ready to their hands is this new lamentable weapon of the air, against which
 our navy is no defense, and before which women and children, the weak and frail, the pacifist
 and the jingo, the warrior and the civilian, the front-line trenches and the cottage home,
 all lie in equal and impartial peril. Nay, worse still, for with the new weapon has come
 a new method, or rather has come back the most brutish methods of ancient barbarism,
 namely the possibility of compelling the submission of races by terrorizing and torturing their
 civil population. And worst of all, the more civilized the country is, the larger and more
 splendid its cities, the more intricate the structure of its social and economic life,
 the more it is vulnerable, the more it is at the mercy of those who may make it their
 prey. Now these are facts, hard, grim, indisputable facts. And in face of these facts, I ask again,
 what are we to do?
